---
layout: singleidea
authors: [ais523, mtf, aosdict, Chris_ANG, Luxidream, RGRN]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new object]
---
New slot for _belts_:
* Belts themselves could be armor or tools, but probably armor. They mainly serve to hold items for quick access. It's not defined whether they are intended to hold an indefinite number of items like any container, or a limited amount. The only problem with making them armor is that they would by default be enchantable for more AC; belts should probably not be enchantable. If it makes more sense that several magical belts would hold charges, tools would be the appropriate class.
* Items carried in a belt weigh nothing and are mostly or totally protected from destruction, and using them doesn't take the action it usually takes to get an item out of a bag.
* Types of belts could be scroll-holding, potion-holding, wand-holding, ammo-holding (with a possible "endless quiver" item or artifact), gem-holding (to get partial resistances from certain gems), chastity (providing immunity to foocubi seduction) or no special powers but some moderate AC.
* One randomized belt description could also provide protection against leprechaun theft.
* Randomized descriptions could include: cloth, leather, worn, studded, buckled, braided
* Tourists and Convicts also start off with garish swim trunks/striped slacks, which do the same things as Hawaiian shirts/striped shirts. The swim trunks also allow swimming. Both of these protect from instadeath when you sit on a cockatrice corpse.
* Belts of giant strength, elven grace, and troll toughness. These increase your Str/Dex/Con either to 25 or by +enchantment (if belts can even be enchanted, which isn't currently defined.)
* Swordbelts/sheathes. These allow you to ready an additional weapon or give you an additional weapon slot.

[More belt ideas here.](https://nethackwiki.com/wiki/User:Red_kangaroo/YANIs/Items#Belts)
