---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict, jonadab, ais523, mtf, Jendic, FIQ, Tone]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [luck, luckstone, CONSIDER BIGIDEA]
---
Luck ideas:
* Luckstones don't remove luck timeout, they merely extend it.
* Luck is much less controllable, impossible to get any clues about except through enlightenment, and various random events (like what?) can give or remove luck. A skilled player would know how to bias the odds towards luck-increasing events. Controllable sources of gaining luck like sacrifice and throwing gems at unicorns are removed. It no longer times out.
* The luck timeout rate is less predictable, and a luckstone will help but it might still time out quickly if the RNG hates you.
* The base number that luck times out to is equal to the total number of luckstones in your inventory (so carrying 2 noncursed luckstones means luck times out to +2). Luckstones' weight is increased.
* Remove luckstones in favor of an amulet of luck. Luck timeout can no longer be slotless.
* Luck times out at a rate of 1 point per (600\*(number of luckitems + 1)) turns.
* Do away with luck timeout entirely in order to make it impossible to micromanage luck. Luck is now conferred entirely by luckitems. The problem with this approach is that NetHack has about two ways to gain timing-out luck and many, many ways to lose it.
* Luck can be gained by enchanting luckstones.
* Different types of luckitems which stack with other luckitems but not with each other, like a four-leaf clover you can get from leprechauns.
