---
layout: singleidea
authors: [ais523, aosdict, jonadab, FIQ]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [fort ludios, minigame]
---
Elaborations on the [Fort Ludios minesweeper proposal by ais523](https://nethackwiki.com/wiki/User:Ais523/Dungeon_Overhaul_Proposal#Fort_Ludios):
* Should spaces with 0 neighboring mines get 0 gold? Good because it makes the game possibly more instantly recognizable as minesweeper, bad because it makes the overall amount of gold less predictable
* Need to guarantee somehow that the person stepping into the room doesn't trigger a mine instantly, and set up the level accordingly.
  * The column nearest the entry door could be clear of mines and gold.
  * The whole border could be clear of mines. However, this means that the total amount of gold must end up being an even number - not ideal.
* What happens if a monster steps on a mine?
* Possibly this needs an Oracle consultation to explain it to unspoiled players. Or make an engraving when you enter - possibly "xyzzy" as a reference to the cheat code in Windows Minesweeper. Or start off with one mine uncovered and identified on sight.
* The number of adjacent mines could be expressed in the ones digit of the gold amount. Possibly with a large round number added, so every space is 3001 or 2002, which hopefully clues the player into the fact that it's a significant number. But this might be too restrictive.
* How to reach the magic number 69105, and do so in a way that guarantees it can be generated? May need to bias the level generator so that this must happen.
