---
layout: singleidea
authors: [NeroOneTrueKing, aosdict]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [instadeath, drowning, breath meter, riders]
---
Attempts to analyze good instadeaths versus bad instadeaths (loosely defined as
ones that are instant hard-to-avoid deaths that aren't really similar to running
out of HP):
* Poison, digestion, lava, death magic, and drawbridge instadeaths could easily
  be converted into HP damage of max(damage dice roll, substantial % of your max
  HP).
* Drowning and choking would be well-suited to a breath system, where it becomes
  a delayed instadeath. Especially so if you can stop the clock by putting on an
  amulet of magical breathing or praying.
* Intelligence drain and level drain generally can't happen without the player
  being given ample time to escape, so they are fine.
* Starvation could be changed to HP loss, but you usually just die from side
  effects of fainting anyway.
* Instadeaths that almost always have to be intentionally caused by the player
  (self-genocide, divine wrath etc) are generally fine as-is.
* Instakilling artifacts are problematic, because there is currently no recourse
  except for the amulet of life saving.
* Eating or digesting the Riders should not instakill without warning, because
  it is now unexpectedly a bad idea to eat a reviving corpse, whereas it had
  been a good idea in the rest of the game.
* Good instadeaths generally use unusual resources to fix, or hit the player's
  reserves in an unexpected way, and allow the player a chance to get out or
  stop it before dying.
