---
layout: singleidea
authors: [Umbire, KR Cartographer, Luxidream]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new role, polymorph, alchemy, new object, eyewear, new monster, F monster class]
---
New Biologist role, which revolves around polymorphing monsters, brewing potions (probably non-alchemically), and possibly collecting samples from monsters.

Possibly, they start with a number of potions of booze, but are penalized for drinking booze; it's intended to use for brewing with samples. They also possibly have a guidebook describing recipes (other roles can do this too, but lacking a guidebook they won't be able to do it very well).

Starting equipment may contain:
* Alchemy smock
* Gloves, probably leather but maybe padded
* Goggles, a new eye-slot tool made of plastic that protects your eyes from splashes and spits just like the visored helmet
* Knife
* Walking shoes
* Wand of polymorph (questionable)
* Tripe and vegetables to tame monsters

One take on the quest: it sees you fighting the Black Mold (a mold that constantly multiplies itself and attacks with random elemental damage, including possibly disintegration, when touched). The quest artifact is the Elixir of Immortality, but this is not possessed by the nemesis; instead you have to brew it yourself using an ingredient found on the goal level and which will be destroyed by the Black Mold if you don't get there first. The Elixir isn't needed; the quest is counted complete if you destroy all the Black Mold.

They can get Expert in only a few skills, including knife.

They are penalized for "animal testing", which is polymorphing or otherwise abusing living peaceful or tame monsters. Or possibly it's okay as long as the subject isn't killed. However, they are rewarded for other forms of experimentation.
