---
layout: singleidea
authors: [Ann, aosdict, elyaguaro, Shadow_Rider]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new monster, v monster class]
---
Blade vortex (cyan <span class="nhsym clr-cyan">v</span>), which is a whirlwind of
spinning blades. It has two engulf attacks that deal 2d4 physical damage each,
and is difficulty 12. Apart from generating normally, it can be created by
polypiling a sufficiently high number of blades at once similar to how golems
are created. When killed, it drops an assortment of bladed weapons, mostly
smaller ones like knives, daggers, and short swords, and possibly a chain or
two. It can be harmed by thrown potions of water, rust traps, and rust attacks.

Another iteration of the proposal is to make its blades its inventory rather
than just assumed to be part of the monster, with the following interesting
implications:
* Rather than just the monster dealing damage, it actually makes attacks with
  randomly selected weapons against an engulfee, which could do things like
  silver damage if the vortex has silver weapons whirling around inside it.
* Could have 6 attacks, each of which must use a different weapon. (If it only
  has 3 weapons in its inventory, it only gets 3 attacks.)
* It would also have to generate with an inventory of a few blades, selected
  randomly from the set of bladed weapons under a certain weight (no giant
  battle-axes).
* If it passes over blades lying on the ground, those are sucked into its
  inventory (which would make it even more deadly if it attacks with weapons it
  holds).
* Also, hitting it with thrown blades will result in those blades being sucked
  in (and possibly dealing no damage since it's obviously not harmed by its own
  blades).
