---
layout: singleidea
authors: [Luxidream, ais523, FIQ, Doesnt]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [sacrifice, sacrifice gifts, altars, monster difficulty]
---
Several elaborations on a system for more reliable (and less tedious) gifts from
altars:
1. Your god will always give you a gift on the first sacrifice from a given
   coaligned altar (not if attempting to convert an altar). But after that, they
   will not give you any more gifts on that altar no matter how much you
   sacrifice. (Other sacrifice effects will still happen as if you failed the
   die roll for a gift.) This eliminates all the tedium associated with altar
   camping for gifts (though not all altar camping in general), but is a
   significant change since getting one corpse to an altar is much easier than
   getting multiple ones, and streamlining the game to this extent may be
   undesirable.
2. As above, but the gift will only be given for the first monster whose
   difficulty is above a certain threshold (possibly partially dependent on
   depth, and also with some random factor). Thus, if you sacrifice and get no
   artifact, you know you have to try a harder monster.
3. The total difficulty of monsters sacrificed is accumulated; the first
   sacrifice to put you over some threshold (say, 30 cumulative difficulty) is
   guaranteed to give you a gift. The totaling may or may not be per-altar.
4. Your god has a set list of rewards, each of which is tied to some monster
   difficulty level. Some of these rewards are artifact gifts; others may be
   things like luck. You only get a gift when you sacrifice a monster of the
   requisite difficulty, and thereafter monsters of equal or lesser difficulty
   to that are ignored by the god for reward purposes (they may still be used
   for mollifying and decreasing prayer timeout). If you make a sacrifice that
   earns you multiple rewards at once, you either get them all at once or you
   get the biggest reward and the smaller ones on subsequent sacrifices. This
   would enable game developers to fix a number of artifact gifts (say, 3), by
   encoding that many rewards for them. This system might have problems in games
   with no deep usable altars where it is harder to get randomly generated
   difficult monsters.
5. Variation of the above: at the beginning of the game, three random monster
   difficulties are chosen (with some limiting on ranges). Sacrificing a monster
   of a difficulty above any of these thresholds automatically gives you a
   sacrifice gift and removes the highest remaining threshold you met.
