---
layout: singleidea
authors: [Ann]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new object, scrolls, money, gems, gold golem, fort ludios]
---
New objects "scrolls of riches", which serve as a means of storing large amounts
of money without carrying around all the literal gold.
* Come in 3 types: "scroll of riches" worth $1000, "scroll of greater riches"
  worth $5000, "scroll of untold riches" worth $10000.
* Uncursed read effect: creates the scroll's cost amount of gold on your square.
* Blessed read effect: as uncursed, but adds some extra gold.
* Cursed read effect: takes your money up to an amount between half the scroll's
  cost and its full cost; if you lack enough gold it will start destroying your
  items in decreasing order of shop sale cost to cover the cost, excluding
  unique items.
* Confused read effect: either summon 1-3 gems (if blessed/uncursed) or glass (if
  cursed), or summon a gold golem as if from a figurine of the same beatitude of
  the scroll.
* Has an ink cost greater than 99, making it unwritable. Not specified whether
  it can be created from polymorph.
* Shopkeepers will always buy and sell noncursed scrolls of riches at face
  value, but will not buy cursed ones.
* If a guard sees you with a scroll of riches, they get angry.
* Several scrolls of untold riches appear in Fort Ludios.
* The thing that seems to be missing is a way to get these scrolls besides
  happening on them randomly; specifically a way to turn carried gold into them.
  Possibly shopkeepeers could generate with one or two and will trade them for
  the equivalent amount of gold.
