---
layout: singleidea
authors: [FIQ, ais523, jonadab]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [alchemy, potions, completely new system, dipping, holy water, dilution]
---
A radically different system from how alchemy currently works, known as **"1 + 1
= 2"**: no matter how many potions are in the stacks being dipped, only one from
each stack is consumed, and two alchemized potions are always produced (unless
they explode).
* Intended as a balance fix for the player's current ability to make stacks and
  stacks of full healing, gain ability, or gain level potions, and promote use
  of found potions instead of diluting them.
* Significantly, potions of holy water mostly work like they do now - the holy
  water does not mix with anything and is consumed, while the dipped item
  becomes blessed - but you can only dip a singular item into the holy water,
  including other potions. This loss of the ability to mass-produce holy water
  creates a significant balance change.
  * Or it could sometimes make two holy waters, but be biased against it, and
    allow both waters to become uncursed in the process.
  * Still unbalanced, since holy water can otherwise be mass produced through
    water prayers and blessed confused remove curse.
* Undiluted potions can be duplicated by dipping them in normal water, e.g. one
  potion of gain level + one water = 2 diluted potions of gain level.
  * Diluted potions may need to have weaker effects to compensate for this, or
    undiluted potions stronger effects.
  * Or potions in general should become rarer, and possibly generate diluted.
