---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [alchemy, former bigidea]
---
*This was migrated from the summary of the "Alchemy" mega-idea following its
breakup into smaller independent ones. It is not an idea in and of itself, but
is rather design notes on the present state of the alchemy system as a whole
which may still be useful.*

NetHack's alchemy system is balanced around the assumption that the player will
_not_ hold onto nearly every potion in the game, turn them to water, and
polypile them into alchemy ingredients; however, this is not hard to do. Should
the player do this, they can amass hundreds of hit points worth of full healing
potions, or all the gain ability potions required to max out every stat, or get
dozens of potions of holy water.

For most potions in the game, diluting for holy water or alchemizing/polypiling
for alchemizing is their ultimate fate, and there are enough potions so that the
player never really has to agonize over what to do with a potion. One solution
to this would be to make more potions than just acid effective for throwing at
monsters.

The color alchemy and gem alchemy patches are unsatisfactory, as is any system
that ties alchemy recipes to the random appearance of potions. This is because
it makes the game choose at the beginning whether powerful potions can be
produced out of junk potions/gems, or out of expensive potions/gems, or not at
all &mdash; all before the player gets a chance to learn how alchemy will work
in this game. It has a large impact on overall strategy that the player can't
discover until probably the midgame. At the same time, having hardcoded alchemy
rules is unsatisfactory because it's inflexible and carries a heavy spoiler
requirement.

Random alchemy is also odd: dipping the same potions in the same way can yield
different potion results.
