---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict, mtf, ais523, jonadab]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [crafting, new monster, new special level, former bigidea]
---
Add a Craftsmen's Guild to the game, as a method of advanced crafting (unlike
the player's simplified crafting such as alchemy crafting potions into other
potions, or combining a blank scroll with a magic marker to make magic scrolls).
The guild either has its own dedicated special level, or occupies part of a
preexisting special level.

* The guild is populated with master craftsmen who work on the principle of
  "valuable junk items + very large sums of gold = desirable items". They can
  also do some things available to the player, like increasing weapon
  enchantment, without needing the specific consumables needed for the player to
  do it.
* Would serve as a replacement or stand-in for the black market. Resolves some
  of the problems with balancing black market shopkeepers: if you kill the black
  market staff, you can have every item in the market, so black market staff
  must be insanely powerful. If you kill a master craftsman, however, you don't
  get anything of value. Therefore, master craftsmen don't have to be insanely
  powerful, or even good fighters.
* Not as good as wishes; there are some things they cannot make for you, like
  magic lamps, and many magical tools. You cannot specify enchantment or
  blessing either. For items for which enchantment doesn't matter, the material
  cost will be higher.
* The interface works by #chatting to them. They will ask you what you want to
  create, and you enter it (using the wish parser logic to extract the proper
  object class), and then they will tell you the items and gold they will need
  for it. These could either be randomized or use certain fixed ingredients with
  some randomization or use completely fixed recipes; if randomized it will be
  deterministic for that item for that craftsman in that game. You are then
  prompted to select the items from your inventory.
* For gold and other balance reasons, this would probably work better the
  farther it is into the game; maybe it could even be found deep into Gehennom.
  Maybe you even have to liberate it from a demon lord.
* Craftsmen might include:
  * Metalworkers (see below)
  * Wandmakers (produce wands)
  * Scribes (produce scrolls and spellbooks)
  * Alchemists (produce potions)
  * Toolsmiths (produce mundane and some magical tools)
  * Jewelers (produce rings and amulets)
  * Sculptor (produce statues and figurines)
  * Leatherworkers (produce leather items and saddles)
  * Chefs (produce food)
  * Arcanologists (transfer charges/enchantments from one item into another, consumes only gold and not items)

#### Metalworker notes
Metalworkers are probably the most important sort of craftsman for many
characters. There could be multiple types, each specializing in one type of
metal, or just one type that does everything.
* Silvering items (or gilding, or copper-coating) should require you to use up
  junk silver items equal to some amount of weight proportional to the weight of
  the new item. The zorkmid cost of silvering should be very high.
* A forge room type (probably containing lava and maybe some junk items like
  iron chains) could be added which has one or more smiths in it (silversmiths,
  goldsmiths, blacksmiths).
  * Goldsmiths seem rather pointless right now, since there is only one gold
    item (the ring). They would be more useful if gold equipment existed and
    conferred some benefit.
  * Blacksmiths don't have much to do as far as turning items into iron goes,
    but they could produce iron weapons of a type the player wants, or repair
    and improve iron weapons and armor (increasing its enchantment).
