---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict, ais523, AmyBSOD, ChrisE]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [crafting, new dungeon feature, new object, corpse, saddle, tallow candle, former bigidea]
---
With respect to other proposals about crafting (involving a craftsmen's guild or
even scattered craftsmen), the process of traveling back and forth to and from
it might become busywork. So if players could craft things on their own, that
might be better.
* Would probably need properly flavored terrain for workstations, like a furnace
  or smelter, for certain crafts, otherwise flavor is too weird. (But this
  creates the problem of having to travel back and forth to it again.)
* Fixed, non-simple recipes (e.g. existing scroll crafting is a simple recipe)
  are a heavy spoiler tax and should be avoided.
* This could be simple for certain types of items, as in requiring some silver
  or gold and a diamond to craft a diamond ring, but doesn't explain where any
  magical effects come from, and also might weirdly tie crafting recipes to
  randomized appearances which have previously been meaningless.
* Probably requires a few more "base" crafting materials, some source of
  leather, some source of wood, etc.
  * Corpses could decay into bones, which disappear themselves with a longer
    timeout, but in the meantime can be used to craft bone stuff.
* One of the craftable items should be saddles, because they're very hard to
  find for non-Knight characters who want to ride.
* Tallow candles should be relatively easy to make, because they can be made out
  of fat from slain animals.
