---
layout: singleidea
authors: [ais523, FIQ, jonadab, aosdict]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [scrolls, spellbooks, spell levels, identification, new randomized appearance, former bigidea]
---
Make scrolls and spellbooks in particular partially identifiable outside of a
shop without having to formally identify them or guess based on frequency (which
are currently the ''only'' ways to identify them outside of a shop). Ideas:
* Higher level spellbooks could be heavier. D&D does this. However, unless the
  game shows the weights of items to the player, it will be tedious for the
  player to figure out the exact weight of a book by picking up and dropping
  items of known weights.
* Make spellbook appearances more complex based on level. A simple color
  indicates a 1-2 level book, an unusual color or appearance indicates a 3-4
  level book, a very odd or ridiculous appearance or material indicates a 5-6
  level book, and a completely over-the-top appearance indicates a level 7+
  book. (Example: "red", "steel", "bone", "jewel-encrusted"). Shuffling of the
  random appearances would need to be changed so that the books retain an
  appearance in their original bracket.
* Make scroll label length (or, more complicated, its number of syllables)
  roughly correlate to its cost. The correlation could be fuzzed a bit, so
  MAPIRO MAHAMA DIROMAT is probably a 300 zorkmid scroll, but is certainly no
  less than 200, and NR 9 is probably something really cheap, but might be 100
  zorkmid.
* When you read a spellbook, you are given a menu with three options:
  * Give the book a cursory glance-over. This can fail with low Int/XL but is
    fairly unlikely and has very minor failure effects. If successful, it
    identifies the spell level of the book. Takes 1/10 the usual spell study
    time.
  * Briefly study the book but don't try to learn its spell. This can fail with
    mediocre Int/XL but will be reliable at high ones. Moderate failure effects.
    If successful, it identifies the spell contained in the book. Takes 1/3 the
    regular spell study time.
  * Study the book normally with normal failure effects and normal spell study
    time. Learns the spell if successful.
