---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict, xyzyxx, PavelB]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [monster ai]
---
Define several generic monster strategies, which a monster will follow to the
best of its ability, and can be swapped out for other strategies given certain
triggers:
* Default: Monster roams aimlessly unless they can see hostiles, in which case
  they beeline towards those hostiles. Smarter monsters might remember the last
  place they saw a hostile and beeline towards that square when the hostile goes
  out of sight.
* Lure: Active only when a monster is fleeing and knows about a trap in the
  vicinity. It tries to get the trap between itself and you.
* Blocking: Monster tries to get between the player and a certain space. Won't
  work well when there's only one of it, but will do nicely in small or large
  groups.
* Zombie resurrection: If zombies can resurrect each other through physical
  contact, living zombies will try to move towards zombie corpses they can see.
* Throw weapon versus wielding it: Mostly useful for things like daggers or
  knives. Most monsters should be smart enough not to throw away their last
  melee weapon when they know they can hit for more damage with it. They will,
  however, unwield weapons and hit you with fists if their only weapon left is
  grossly unfit for melee (i.e. crossbow).
* Darkness: Try not to move out of darkness / into darkness unless there's no
  other choice. If in the wrong one and doing nothing special, beeline towards
  the nearest visible way out of it. Most useful for gremlins who want to stay
  in darkness.
* Passwall: if monsters cannot take physical items with them when they phase
  through walls, they will not actually pass through walls while carrying any
  items they care about, unless they are fleeing, in which case they will
  abandon the items.
* Food smells: If the hero is carrying a lot of food in open inventory, monster
  AI may be more effective at tracking the player, depending on if the food is
  anything the monsters like to eat. Carrying around lots of fleshy food like
  tripe rations or meatballs helps carnivorous monsters track, carrying around
  produce helps herbivorous monsters track, tins don't have any scent or effect,
  inediate pets get no tracking bonus.
* Hero displacement: Monsters often attack each other because they think the
  hero is displaced where another monster is. The smarter a monster is, the more
  chances it should have to re-roll this displacement roll as long as it keeps
  landing on other monsters. Or else, if there's only one displaced image, smart
  monsters should conclude it's not where the other monster is and lash out
  randomly at empty space.
* Bones ghost AI: camp on the bones pile, guarding it, never chase the hero away
  from it.
* Insects returning to the hive: bees periodically path back to their hive
  unless they're actively chasing or combatting something. Ants do this too, and
  even pick up and bring back food items.
* Swarming AI (bees and possibly other insects): before moving, they calculate
  if they can see any others of the same monster, and if so, they are
  disincentivized for moving into a space where they would lose sight of all
  such monsters. This should keep swarms actually cohesive but still able to
  move along corridors and pursue the player.
* No reason to move: the monster doesn't move, or moves infrequently and
  randomly, unless it sees you as an enemy. It can have a normal speed and
  doesn't need to be sleeping or peaceful or anything. If it no longer detects
  you, it may return to its state of not pursuing you.
