---
layout: singleidea
authors: [Demo, aosdict, Grasshopper, Tarmunora, jonadab, ais523, Chris_ANG, NeroOneTrueKing]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new role, alchemy, potions, empty bottle, new object, area of effect, new artifact, ruby, opal, life saving, potion of polymorph, former bigidea]
---
An Alchemist role, revolving around potions and alchemy, and likely requiring
overhauls of several systems.
* The main form of combat is to create phials of potion (where 1 potion splits
  into many phials), which can be tossed at enemies to cause potion effects on
  them. The main potions used are things like acid, paralysis, (lit) oil, and
  confusion.
  * Phials come in all the same types as normal potions but have somewhat weaker
    effects.
  * You can dip a stack of empty phials into a potion to fill them with that
    potion (up to some maximum).
  * Thrown phials have the same exact splash damage effect on things as throwing
    the potion would produce, but drinking it is a small enough dose to only
    cause the splash damage effects to the drinker. Requires some balance so
    that splash damage is useful against monsters but not useful for the player
    to drink for beneficial phials.
  * Phials can be dipped into potions, but nothing can be dipped into phials.
* The quest artifact is the Philosopher's Stone.
  * The quest leader is Nicolas Flamel and the nemesis is an Avatar of Death
    (like Death, but weaker).
  * Fun possibilities for transmuting materials here if the object materials
    patch is in effect.
  * Its base item type could be a ruby (but perhaps not because dnethack makes
    the Heart of Ahriman a ruby) or a garnet, based on its color in Harry
    Potter, or an opal.
* Can also create alchemic gizmos: smoke bombs from potions of blindness,
  firebombs from potions of oil, all lighter and more numerous and useful than
  the base potions.
* Start with all potions identified.
* Could start with an alchemy kit, which is a rare tool find for other roles.
  NeroOneTrueKing proposed a set of mechanics for an alchemy kit:
  * Has 3 compartments. The first accepts only potions/phials of polymorph (or
    perhaps it just has charges and you can recharge it by using potions of
    polymorph).
  * The other compartments must each only contain items of the same material.
  * A success chance is displayed based on the amount of polymorph potion
    available, the weight ratio of the two compartments, and the materials
    themselves (metal can transform into metal relatively easily).
  * A successful use swaps all of the materials of the two compartments.
* Needs mechanics such that in an Alchemist's hands, no potion is useless.

The invoke effect of the Philosopher's Stone is heavily debated.
* It creates potions of the Elixir of Life. This potion cures disease and
  restores lost attributes, but most importantly it grants temporary intrinsic
  lifesaving. If you die with intrinsic lifesaving, you lose the remaining time
  for the intrinsic.
* Creating potions is way too powerful since the player will be able to bank
  them, so nerf this: perhaps you can only get Elixir of Life by dipping the
  Stone into a potion of full healing, or something. Or Elixir goes bad after a
  while and reverts to water, making it usable for before a fight but not for
  stashing.
* The Elixir should not be _more_ powerful than a potion of full healing, or the
  invoke effect of the Staff of Aesculapius - healers should be the best at
  actual healing. Probably, getting lifesaved from intrinsic lifesaving will
  only restore enough HP to stay alive a little longer.
* The Elixir gives a large temporary boost to HP regeneration.
* No Elixir of Life; it instead turns potions of sickness into (extra? full?)
  healing.
* The Stone can turn metal objects into gold or can turn rocks into gold pieces
  when rubbed on them.
* When dipped into gain level or gain energy, transforms the potion into
  polymorph.

A really great Alchemist implementation would probably involve a full alchemy
overhaul which adds herbs and fungi, harvesting ingredients from corpses,
cooking, and interesting ways to combine everything. The challenge with making
this is how to make the other stuff useful for other roles and not just the
alchemist, and at the same time not overcomplicating the game with the new
additions.
