---
layout: singleidea
authors: [FIQ, jonadab, ais523, stenno, aosdict]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [spellbooks, object generation, former bigidea]
---
Instead of books having spestudied charges which leads to a lot of issues with
polypiling, you read them once and they disappear, but you get 3 times the spell
memory. This is intended to remove tedious spellbook micromanagement.
* Spellbooks would need to be considerably more common than they are in vanilla.
  In FIQhack, where this was originally discussed (and later implemented),
  spellcasters generate with books, and the level of dropped spellbooks scales
  well as the game progresses since more dangerous monsters carry higher-level
  books.
* This addresses polypiling by allowing the player to polypile the book as much
  as they want, but they can only read it once. (Does not fix the problem of
  polypiling a book multiple times and identifying but not reading the results
  -- perhaps an increased chance of going blank is in order.)
* Slightly makes things tougher for people who finish their games in under
  60,000 turns, since they can't use a spell for free confusion. Which may
  actually be a good thing.
* Also a problem for people who play very long games, because they will need to
  find or write replacement spellbooks; however, this was sort of already the
  case.
* May make polypiling unknown spellbooks too popular, since an unknown spellbook
  is likely not to be the one you want, or you have price-IDed it and know it's
  something you will never use, and you can now poly without consequence.
  Perhaps address this by giving polymorphed spellbooks an elevated chance to
  become blank, and blank spellbooks do not poly into anything else.
