---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict, NeroOneTrueKing, FIQ, jonadab]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [advanced spell forms, spellcasting, skill scaling, former bigidea]
---
Advanced spell forms are slightly problematic. Certain spells (fireball and cone
of cold) which have advanced versions automatically kick in when the player is
Skilled or above, and can't be cast using the lesser form even if the player
wants to.
* Some variants give you the choice of casting the basic or advanced form, but
  this suffers from an interface annoyance (an extra y/n prompt) and the fact
  that the advanced form counts as the same spell level so it is not actually
  any more difficult or expensive to cast.
* Advanced forms are castable even at Basic skill, but have a higher failure
  rate.
* The advanced form appears in the Z menu once you are Skilled.
* The advanced forms are implemented as higher-level never-generated spellbooks,
  e.g. "fire storm" and "frost storm". Reading the basic spellbook automatically
  teaches you the advanced spell as well. This is dNetHack's approach.
  * This allows you to balance them separately; in the case of fireball and cone
    of cold, the lesser spells could be dropped to level 3 or so and the
    advanced forms elevated to level 6.
* The advanced forms are broken out into completely separate spellbooks that
  must be discovered and learned separately.
  * This makes the balance of spellbooks a concern, since it would add more
    books of a certain school.
  * Both of the ideas that involve higher level spellbooks may create a problem
    with the Z menu only allowing 52 different spells if more advanced forms
    come along, not that that can't be worked around.
* Skilled+ casting does nothing to the actual spell effects, but allows you to
  cast the spell mentally: you do not need to be able to speak or move to cast
  it.
