---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict, mtf]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [doors, door trap, former bigidea]
---
Instead of making all trapped doors explode and stun the player, add more varied
door traps. The trap should be determined based on depth. It should also be
selected deterministically based on the coordinates of the door (a convenience
so that a trapped door will always have the same trap effect without having to
store which trap it is.)

Additionally, new traps can also be used with more door states, rather than have
all traps trigger by trying to open the door. Nondestructive traps could also
remain on the door until the door is untrapped, rather than vanishing.

An interesting addition would be if doors were made restrictedly or completely
untrappable, in order to prevent optimal strategy from being attempting to
untrap every door that the player comes across. Or possibly an attempt to open
or close a door should do a cursory trap check.

List of door traps in rough order of minimum depth necessary to generate them:
* The hinges screech loudly when opened or closed, waking nearby monsters.
* Door closes and locks itself.
* Electric shock from the knob, dealing 1d(DL\*2) damage, that doesn't destroy
  items.
* Bucket of water falls on your head and causes water damage to several items in
  inventory.
* Your hand is stuck to the knob, causing you to be unable to move for the next
  few turns.
* Hingeless door: either falls on top of you and deals 1d(DL/2) damage, or (more
  likely) falls the other way and you fall over on top of it. Either way, you
  are stunned for a few turns. The door becomes "broken".
* A boxing glove swings out from behind the door and punches you, dealing damage
  and causing you to stagger/hurtle back a few steps.
* Object falls out of the ceiling on the player's head (copying an ADOM trap).
* Knob burns your hand for 1d(DL) damage and causes you to drop your weapon.
  Gloves reduce damage and prevent the drop.
* Door that explodes in a fireball: possibly no stunning, but burns inventory as
  it does in GruntHack.
