---
layout: singleidea
authors: [jonadab, FIQ, ais523, K2, Luxidream, aosdict, greqrg]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new role, druid, polymorph, polymorph control, starting equipment, trees, monster difficulty, former bigidea]
---
Add a Druid role: intended to be a more balanced form of SLASH'EM's doppelganger
race, druids are highly attuned to nature and possess innate shapeshifting
abilities.
* You begin the game with polymorph control and get polymorphitis at XL 5 or so.
* Possibly you start with a wand of polymorph, or potions of it.
* Inventory could be severely restricted, so you have to figure out how to do
  most things through polymorph.
* You have the power to change into a tree, which will make most monsters ignore
  you. While in tree form, you are immobile but regenerate HP and Pw faster.
  Orcs might attack you with axes, a la Tolkien.
* Without extrinsic polymorph control, your polymorph control limits you to
  changing into forms with the M1_ANIMAL flag.
* Possibly have limited access to #polyself outside of wizard mode, so they can
  change intentionally and not randomly. Would work best as an ability with a
  timeout, or cost Pw outside of wizard mode.
* Possibly, the monsters you can polymorph into must have a certain base level
  or difficulty that's tied to your XL somehow (maybe XL/2). If their base level
  is too high, you can't polymorph into them.
* Your controlled polymorphs always succeed - you will never accidentally fail
  and "feel like a new woman" with the 20% chance that all other roles have.
* You are seriously bad at combat in your regular form, having very little
  weapon skill (nothing can be advanced to Expert, possibly not even to
  Skilled), and physically weak in your normal form. Combat in a polyform should
  be incentivized enough so that it isn't really worth it to wear any armor.
  Maybe you should get to-hit and damage bonuses while in a wild form?
* Diminishing returns on polymorph time limit that prevent you from reusing the
  same form(s) over and over and over again. (This may actually be applicable as
  a general YANI for polymorph control).
* The critical balance needed is to make polyselfing powerful and awesome to
  play with and use for typical combat, but simultaneously polyselfing needs
  enough restrictions that it doesn't just turn into Master Mind Flayer: The
  Game.
  * One proposed restriction: you can only turn into monsters you have already
    encountered, or if that is too lax, into peaceful or tame monsters adjacent
    to you at the time. The druid should be able to pacify most animalistic
    monsters to take advantage of this (temporarily?)
* The starting pet is a woodchuck (or wolf). Pantheon is probably drawn from
  Celtic mythology, though hopefully not overlapping with Knights.
* Some heavy polymorph / monster / player as monster tweaking is probably
  required, in the sense that there should, ideally, be valid reasons to exist
  in any given polymorphable form.
* You should keep the intrinsics from a polyform after you no longer have that
  form, but only temporarily, so they time out eventually.
