---
layout: singleidea
authors: [ais523, FIQ, Chris_ANG]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [spell of charm monster, armor, pets, taming, pacification, new spell, skill scaling, former bigidea]
---
Charm monster is generally considered too powerful and too low-level, and should
probably be nerfed. Ideas:
* It only works if you're not wearing any armor. (This is apparently how D&D
  does it.) Alternatively, its chance of successfully charming is reduced the
  more armor you're wearing.
* Make it more reliable than it is now, but it always fails if you have other
  pets. (You can then only have one pet at a time without using scrolls of
  taming.)
* It only tames one monster at a time. (Make it a directional beam with a
  maximum range of 1.)
* It only pacifies monsters, and can't be used to tame an always-hostile
  monster.
* Make it do what the temporary pet code in the Bard patch does: the monster
  remains tame for a fairly short amount of time and then reverts to whatever it
  was originally.
* Split into three spells: pacify monster (peaceful for charisma\*2 turns),
  charm monster (tame for Charisma\*2 turns), and dominate monster (tame
  permanently or for a long time).
* It only works on _monsters_, and doesn't work on intelligent beings.
* It can't directly tame a hostile monster; it can only pacify it. Peaceful
  monsters can then be tamed by subsequent casts, but attempting to tame a
  peaceful intelligent monster may anger it instead. The pacification step is
  dependent only on monster MR, but the taming depends on the player's level
  relative to the target. The scroll of taming should remain comparatively
  powerful.
* Scale with skill: unskilled attempts to pacify one adjacent monster, basic to
  pacify all adjacent, skilled to tame one adjacent, and expert to tame all
  adjacent. All of these are subject to normal monster MR checks.
* Whatever nerfs do get applied, they should ensure that the scroll of taming is
  more powerful and reliable than the spell.
