---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [statue trap, code internals]
---
Resolve the quirkiness of statue traps - they are a silent trap on which a real
statue potentially containing spellbooks can generate, which you can teleport off
the trap to smash for its spellbooks (indicating it's a true statue) and do not
show up with telepathy or monster detection (indicating it's a true statue), but
reveal themselves as "You find a foo posing as a statue" (indicating it's been a
living monster all along). There are two basic options:
1. _Statue traps are posing monsters:_ Remove statue traps as a floor trap. In
   their place, put real but non-moving monsters that appear as statues of
   themselves, using the monster appearance system used by mimics. This means
   that you can see the monsters with telepathy and monster detection and you
   can't exploit it to get spellbooks. Potentially, also narrow the set of
   monsters that can appear as posing monsters, since a lot of mindless monsters
   such as zombies wouldn't be capable of patiently waiting for someone to move
   onto their square.
2. _Statue traps magically animate a statue when someone moves onto their
   space_: Searching for traps may still reveal statue traps, but it does not
   activate the monster. This implementation might also actually remove statue
   traps as a floor trap, and instead use the otrapped field on the statue
   object, so relocating the statue doesn't affect its trapped status. Trap
   detection should still show trapped statues.
