---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [alchemy, completely new system, discoveries list]
---
Make alchemy recipes randomized per-game and consistent with a game, by doing
the following:
* Initialize a N by N matrix at the start of the game, where N is the number of
  different potions in the game besides water. The matrix provides a lookup for
  what the constituent potion types in the appropriate rows mix to combine.
* Basic alchemy practices don't consult the matrix, for instance, dipping a
  cursed potion into something always causes a blast, and dipping a potion into
  another of the same does nothing.
* Nonmagical potions are possibly excluded from the reagent set, the result
  set, or both. Most likely the reagent set *if* both source potions are
  nonmagical - it doesn't make sense to mix nonmagical juice with booze and
  wind up with a magical potion of enlightenment. But it may also not make
  enough sense if combining two magical potions produces a nonmagical one.
* The number of entries for a given potion type in the matrix are proportionate
  to the generation frequency of that potion. So there may only be one
  specific combination of potions which produces polymorph, whereas many things
  produce sickness or fruit juice.
* Hardcoded rules like *could* be enforced on the matrix if need be, but it's
  probably better if players don't have an easy known path to mass produce full
  healing or gain ability.

This system gets rid of random alchemy results entirely, but does not
necessarily get rid of the chance of an alchemic blast or failing and turning
into water or evaporating. Possibly these could be removed, so that the player
is incentivized to try and mix together as many potion types as they can to
discover what they produce and find interesting combinations.

A list of known alchemy recipes could be added to the discoveries list so the
player can use it as a reference.
