---
layout: singleidea
authors: [krm26]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [ascension run, gehennom, level generation, lava, demon lords]
---
Shorten Gehennom drastically, paring it down to a few mandatory levels (the
Valley, the Wizard's Tower (containing Vlad's Tower entrance), the vibrating
square level containing the fake Wizard's Tower to portal into the real one)
with no demon lord lairs and no filler. In exchange, once you start escaping the
Sanctum with the Amulet, any level you reenter for the first time gets partly
overwritten with Gehennom elements -- rivers of lava, twisted mazes, and in
particular, the demon lords. However, enough areas of the map will be left in
their original states so that it remains recognizable. In particular this is
aimed at making sure any stash you have made may not survive the process.

There are several motivations for this:
* Reduce the common feeling of "the game is over after the Castle" by putting
  only a few things between the Castle and the ascension run.
* Put the main challenge of Gehennom on the way out of the dungeon, not on the
  way in.
* Make it uncertain that the player will be able to go back to a big stash of
  items after grabbing the Amulet and take whatever they need before entering
  the Planes.
* Reduce the number of situations where the player can simply levelport away
  from a hairy problem such as a tough demon lord, collect the appropriate gear
  to fight them, and return (dipping into and out of Gehennom).
* Remove a Gehennom-worth of items the player finds on the ground and in monster
  inventories (where "the difficulty is flat but the loot keeps coming").
* Mitigate the tedium of knowing you're as powerful as you're ever going to get
  but still have to retrace 50 explored levels. Relatedly, remove the incentive
  -- the ability, even -- to go tunneling through mazes.
