---
layout: singleidea
authors: [RGRN]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [rock, digging, stone terrain, boulder, walls, new dungeon feature, water terrain, stone to flesh, huge chunk of meat, force bolt, pit, hole, dwarf race, race benefits]
---
The "Construction Patch":
* When digging out stone (not necessarily walls) with a pick, rocks may fall on
  your head with a lowish chance, about 10% per dug square. These deal the least
  damage if you are wearing a dwarven helm, and a little less than normal if you
  are wearing some other hard helm. Dwarvish characters have a high chance of
  dodging the falling debris entirely. Possibly also allow a boulder falling on
  your head from digging similar to when monsters tunnel.
* You can apply rocks at an adjacent floor square to build a wall. It takes 50
  rocks, or 25 if there is a boulder in that square. (If the space is marked as
  being wall-nondiggable, this either doesn't work, or flips the space to being
  diggable.) It takes 1 turn per rock to build it. In the process it creates an
  immovable object or dungeon feature called "partially-built wall" on that
  space, which tracks how many rocks are part of it. If you move onto the space,
  you can dismantle the wall and retrieve the rocks.
* You can apply rocks at an adjacent pool or moat to attempt to fill it. The
  more rocks, the higher the chance of filling it. This takes only 1 turn.
* Stone to fleshing diggable wall turns it into huge chunks of meat.
* Force bolts from striking wands or the spell scatter rocks off diggable walls
  they hit, and in roughly 5 shots the wall is destroyed.
* Digging a pit or hole puts a pile of rocks on a random adjacent square.
* When you dig a hole and fall down to the next level, you are usually
  accompanied by a shower of rocks falling on and around you. Dwarves are more
  adept at dodging and getting hit by fewer rocks.
* When using a pick to dig a square of natural stone where the four orthogonally
  adjacent squares are all dug out already, you are asked if you want to carve
  out a boulder. If you say yes, a boulder is deposited on the new space.

Note that the two boulder-creation methods above run the risk of being exploited
for abusable quantities of food if you have stone to flesh available, and the
stone-to-flesh-walls method explicitly invokes this.
