---
layout: singleidea
authors: [RGRN]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [minetown, new monster, monster ai, chat, new command, disarming, new skill, money, the watch, potion of booze, potion of full healing]
---
Enhance Minetown with a bunch of new NPC denizens:

* Dwarven trainer: found in a largish room.
  * Chatting to him makes him ask if you want to train, for a fee. If you say
    yes and pay it, he shouts "Defend yourself!" and begins to fight with you.
    This lasts until you chat with him again. While you are in this training
    fight, neither of you deal damage to the other one, though you can still
    deal damage normally to other things.
  * If you don't want to train, he offers to teach you how to disarm for a
    large sum of money. Disarming is a technique you can use with the #disarm
    command after you have learned it from him. Possibly, it unlocks a
    "disarming" skill that you can't get elsewhere. When you use the disarm
    command, you are prompted for a direction to pick an adjacent monster. The
    monster must be wielding a weapon, and you must have some minimum amount of
    skill in your weapon (which can be martial arts). The chance of success is
    20% base, +1% per point of Luck (or -1% per negative Luck), +5% for every
    skill level above Unskilled you are in either your weapon skill, or the
    disarm skill, +2% per level you have over the monster, and -2% per level the
    monster has over you.
* Elven enchantress: Mutually exclusive with the trainer. Chatting with her
  prompts you for an item to enchant.
  * Items that are not naturally enchantable with enchant scrolls get refused.
  * Artifacts or items at their maximum enchantment get refused; she gives a
    line about how it is already surrounded by powerful magic and she dares not
    attempt it.
  * If the item is damaged, it gets repaired, for a modest amount of money per
    level of damage.
  * If the item is undamaged but not blessed, it gets blessed, charging a
    slightly higher amount of money.
  * If the item is blessed and undamaged, its enchantment is increased by 1,
    charging a larger amount of money that scales in direct proportion to the
    preexisting enchantment on that item.
  * She possibly fooproofs the item if it's at maximum enchantment.
* Dwarven innkeeper: also found in a large room.
  * Chatting to him has him offer you an ale, for either 5 zorkmids or the
    appropriate buy cost of a potion of booze, and accepting produces the
    effects of an uncursed potion of booze, as well as identifying the potion of
    booze. 50% of the time, he also gives you a random rumor as if from an
    uncursed fortune cookie. (Criticism of this is that on-demand confusion
    makes several early-game challenges involving confused effects of scrolls
    trivial.)
  * He will also offer you a room to stay the night if the Watch is not angry at
    you, for either $50 or the cost of a potion of full healing. Accepting fully
    heals you (or produces the effects of an uncursed potion of full healing,
    without identifying the potion since one wasn't involved). Not specified how
    it should deal with the time you are sleeping, whether that means literally
    putting you to sleep or something else.
* Old gladiator: found 1/3 of the time, possibly in the inn; chatting to him
  produces some old battle stories and a request for an ale (same price as if
  you were buying it yourself). The first time you buy him an ale, he will teach
  you a random weapon skill. Subsequent times he only thanks you drunkenly for
  the drink.
* Aged traveler: found 1/3 of the time, possibly in the inn, mutually exclusive
  with the gladiator; chatting to him has him offer to tell you the depth of the
  Oracle level for 50 zorkmids, or offer to "teach you some things he's learned
  in his travels" for 1000 zorkmids, which acts like a blessed potion of gain
  level, but is not available after you get it once. Alternatively, he could
  teach you several random item identities.
* Dirty drunk: found 1/3 of the time, possibly in the inn, mutually exclusive
  with the gladiator and traveler.
* Bar brawler: found in the inn, interacting with him in any way will make him
  angry and start a fight. You're allowed to fight but not kill him (which would
  anger the Watch), and you can pacify him by putting him to sleep, paying him
  off, beating him close enough to death to make him give up, or whatever. If
  the fight breaks out in the inn you owe the innkeeper money for broken
  furniture.
* Criminal or mugger: chatting to them makes them aware of you and they will try
  to steal from you later.
* Merchant: Wanders around Minetown, slightly weaker than a shopkeeper. Will
  sell you food rations at the standard price. Criticism of this is that an
  unlimited source of food rations is unbalancing and makes a delicatessen
  obsolete. To add balance, he might have a limited quantity of them to sell,
  but then he is still kind of pointless.
* Beggar: Has one randomly generated item, which he will sell at either its
  standard price or a discount. Most of the time this won't be useful, but
  occasionally it could be something good.
* Bureaucrat: sits alone in a small room. Chatting with him makes him sneer at
  you, "I'm busy". However, if the Watch is angry, he will offer to take a large
  amount of gold from you to pacify them.

A secondary proposal is to make some of the denizens who teach you things
actually useless a random amount of the time. For instance, the gladiator is a
liar who's good at spinning stories and not much else, or the aged traveler is a
charlatan who gives misinformation, abusing Wisdom or sapping your experience
points.
