---
layout: singleidea
authors: [RGRN]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new special level, planes, yellow light, trees, hp regeneration, hit point maximum, enchanting, charging, eating, exercise, abuse, sleeping,]
---
Add two new elemental planes, those of Positive Energy and Negative Energy.

The Plane of Positive Energy:
* The full level is lit.
* Has lots of yellow lights, trees, and whatever plant-based monsters exist in
  the game.
* Everything is treated as if it has regeneration. The player can regenerate
  current HP *past* its maximum, but if this gets too far past the maximum, they
  instantly die from being unable to contain the energy (there are warning
  messages to this effect as you approach this point).
* Items in the player's and monsters' inventories can randomly get blessed,
  enchanted, or charged - even if this runs the risk of overenchanting and
  destroying them.
* Eating any food restores HP as well as nutrition.
* All exercisable attributes are exercised at regular intervals.
* All sleep effects are negated.

The Plane of Negative Energy:
* The full level is dark.
* Contains lots of undead.
* Everything constantly loses hit points. If you have regeneration, it either
  nullifies or only partly nullifies this effect.
* Items in the player's and monsters' inventories can randomly get cursed or
  lose enchantment or charges (going negative on things which are capable of
  being negative).
* You lose several times as much nutrition per turn as normal.
* All abusable attributes are abused at regular intervals.
