---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict, amateurhour, hackemslashem]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new role, completely new system, death drops, new object, spellcasting, new spell, undead, amulets, valkyrie]
---
Alternative Necromancer role, because its implementation in SLASH'EM winds up
being a rather halfhearted version of Wizard with some elements of Priest and
Archeologist. Note: This was written for a hypothetical variant that does not
have a Necromancer role, rather than as an update to SLASH'EM's.
* When playing as a Necromancer, dying monsters may drop "soul" objects, which
  can then be collected by the player.
  * Souls only exist as an object for the purpose of occupying a space on the
    map before being picked up. They are weightless and do not actually occupy
    space in inventory, nor can they be stolen after being collected. A
    Necromancer can have an unlimited amount of them.
  * If a soul drops adjacent to the player, it is automatically collected.
  * Souls drop 100% of the time from monsters the player kills, less for
    monsters that die otherwise. Never for monsters that kill themselves.
  * Monsters ignore souls and cannot pick them up. (There is room for an
    extension where certain undead like a barrow wight or a lich can collect
    souls to become more powerful, but that is not required for this.)
  * Souls vanish after being on the floor for around 10 turns or being moved off
    level, preventing the player from sitting back while pets or conflict mop
    up a large crowd of monsters and then obtaining all their souls with no
    effort.
  * Souls can also be offered on an altar to gain alignment points.
* Souls are used to fuel the casting of _necromancy spells_, an entirely new
  spell school. Necromancy spells consume some Pw like normal spells, but also
  consume souls, and generally are more powerful than non-necromancy spells of
  the same level. Various spell ideas:
  * Reanimate creature: which consumes a soul of some creature and reanimates a
    corpse of that same creature, bringing it back as a pet. (It may be flagged
    as undead, if the variant supports this).
  * Soul blast: Consumes multiple souls and produces an attack whose power is
    proportionate to the total monster difficulty of the expended souls.
  * Empower undead: Temporarily buffs all nearby pets, scaling up with the more
    souls you expend. This is intended to be one of the primary ways a
    Necromancer takes care of enemies, so it should be a pretty good boost.
  * Spell which consumes 5-10 souls of one monster type and create a tame
    monster of that type without needing a corpse.
  * Spell which consumes souls to regain HP or Pw.
  * Spell which infuses your weapon, armor, or other gear with souls, making it
    more effective for a time.
  * Spell which consumes souls of one species and polymorphs you into that
    monster.
  * Charm undead: Tames undead. Low cost compared to general charm monster.
  * Create wight: Works like reanimate creature but the resulting creature gains
    level-drain abilities.
* A good guaranteed starting combination of spells for the Necromancer might be
  reanimate creature and empower undead, since this will enable them to kill
  monsters, bring them back as pets, and boost them with the souls from more
  kills.
* Most undead (at least the mindless undead) generate peaceful to Necromancers.
* If desired, there could also be an "amulet of necromancy" which, when worn by
  non-Necromancers, causes souls to drop (less frequently than they do for
  Necromancers) and enables the hero to cast necromancy spells. However, not
  many other roles would be non-Restricted in necromancy spells, and any Lawful
  hero would be harshly penalized for casting them.
  * In order to avoid this being a useless item for Necromancers, it could improve
    soul drop chances for them.
  * Non-Necromancers wearing the amulet might also be limited in the amount of
    souls they could have at one time.
* If desired, Valkyries could be able to collect souls natively, but the only
  thing they can do with them without penalty would be to offer them on altars
  for alignment points.

The system may want some simplification since it may be clunky to have the
player navigate through menus to choose souls from all the different ones they
have accumulated. Possibly, souls from a given species just combine, so you
would be shown something like "souls of gnome kings (12 total monster levels)".
An extreme simplification would cut out the entire soul-storage system and just
replenish Pw when you collect one.
