---
layout: singleidea
authors: [FIQ, Loggers_VIII]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [techniques, monster command, role benefits, demon lords]
---
Implement "special abilities" for each role that behave like (or simply are)
techniques, but which would probably use the #monster command. These include:
* Monks' ability continuously doubles their martial arts damage (i.e. x2, x4,
  etc) for as long as they keep landing hits within one action. Missing or
  declining to attack breaks this effect.
* Wizards can extract magic from the air, which drains Pw from enemies and gives
  it to the hero.
* Tourists can throw a party, which pacifies everyone within some range until
  someone takes damage.
* Barbarians can buff their attack, perhaps by giving any weapon a Cleaver-like
  arc (though they often get Cleaver anyway).
* Archeologists can detect enchanted treasure (not just all objects) on the
  level.
* Priests don't get a new ability because they already have one: turn undead.
* Valkyries can freeze an area near them, freezing water into ice and dealing
  cold damage to monsters that is higher the closer they are to the hero.
* Samurai can swap places with a hostile monster, dealing some damage and
  stunning them in the process.
* Cavemen can get a big boost to stone throwing/slinging range and damage, or
  can get some sort of "primal rage" that boosts speed and doubles all damage.
* Knights can give their steed a free attack after each hit they land on
  something (which can extend to dragon breathing if they are riding a dragon).

The other half of this idea is to give other unique abilities to each demon
boss, but these aren't specified.

Interestingly, using the #monster command implies that you can only use these
abilities when in your normal non-polymorphed form.
