---
layout: singleidea
authors: [Istfemer, aosdict, paxed]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new themed room, black pudding, player monster, knife, stiletto]
---
Add a themed room commemorating the long-lived tactic of pudding farming. It has
the following properties:
* It is a huge room, possibly a variant of the "Huge room" themed room with no
  subroom.
* On one space in the middle of the room is the pudding farmer, a random player
  monster.
  * They generate at level 15-30, as they do on the Astral Plane, but don't have
    the same equipment as they would get on the Astral Plane, just the regular
    gear a player monster would get. Possibly some nicer gear under the
    assumption they've farmed it off the puddings.
  * They are hostile to the player, unless of the same role, in which case they
    are peaceful.
  * The pudding farmer also carries a thoroughly rusty -3 knife or stiletto,
    their Puddingbane, though it is not named as such.
  * Messages and farlook show their name as having replaced their rank title
    with "Pudding Farmer", e.g. "Fred the Pudding Farmer".
* The remaining spaces in the room have some reasonably high chance of spawning
  a black pudding, with varying degrees of reduced current and maximum HP.
* There may be a sink somewhere on the room's floor, from which the initial
  pudding came.
* No globs of pudding on the floor from already-killed puddings; the thematic
  thing would be to have pudding corpses, which no longer exist in vanilla.
  Globs would imply the player monster has been pudding farming in NetHack 3.6
  or later, which doesn't make much sense.
* The minimum level difficulty of this room is 4, though that seems awfully low
  given how dangerous it's likely to be. It could be based on the difficulty of
  black puddings, such as the difficulty of a black pudding + 3.
* One option to cut down on the gimmickiness of it is to have the *corpse* of a
  player monster, possibly with some gear, but not the player monster
  themselves, implying they slipped up and fell victim to the puddings.
* Since it was possible to pudding farm brown puddings in earlier versions of
  NetHack, there could be some chance that this room consists of brown puddings
  instead, which could then appear at a slightly lower difficulty and would lack
  a sink. Though this would be strange in the above case of there being a corpse
  rather than a player monster, since brown puddings cannot deal damage (maybe
  they choked?)
