---
layout: singleidea
authors: [aosdict, rikersan, AntiGulp]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new race, corpse, polymorph, new object, occupation, experience level, b monster class, references]
---
Kandra race, based on the Mistborn books: a shapeless or shapeshifting
invertebrate that can eat and imitate creatures with skeletons by "wearing"
their bones. Would have the following properties:
* When you eat a bony corpse as a kandra, you are given the opportunity to turn
  into that monster.
* You might otherwise have the opportunity to digest the flesh but keep the
  skeleton (which would be a new item using corpsenm to track which monster
  species it's a skeleton of) in order to wear it later. Skeletons would have to
  be heavy or bulky enough so that carrying lots of them around wouldn't be
  feasible, and potentially corpses should rot into skeletons instead of
  completely vanishing.
* You can only achieve a perfect imitation of a monster by eating its fresh
  corpse. Wearing a skeleton at any other point results in a poorer imitation
  that would be penalized in some way: it could deal less damage, have terrible
  Charisma, and so on.
* When perfectly imitating a monster, other monsters might not attack you.
* Eating and replicating a corpse also takes time, which would be implemented as
  an occupation. If interrupted, your new form is imperfect. Possibly, the time
  needed to assume a shape from a skeleton decreases as you get more experienced
  and gain more levels.
* You can exist without any bones, but this means you are a weak, slow ooze
  monster (perhaps kandra should be in the "b" class).
* Hunger might not work the same way. Kandra in Mistborn do not need to eat, but
  for gameplay balance there should probably still be some need to keep seeking
  out food.
* Might be able to store some smaller items inside your body, protecting them
  from theft, damage, and destruction.
* Can pick locks with your "hands" by selecting "-" as a lockpicking implement.
* Sources of acid would be especially damaging.
* These are a lot of advantages with few disadvantages; some special
  disadvantages might need to be created, such as certain types of elemental
  damage disrupting your body and forcing you to drop your skeleton.
* The system of Blessings in Mistborn (two magical spikes which all kandra must
  keep within their body at all times) could be used. Somehow losing the
  Blessings would be an instadeath.
