---
layout: singleidea
authors: [jonadab, paxed, bhaak]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [completely new system, sokoban, level flags, engravings, rock, new glyph, new object]
---
Ideas for a Sudoku puzzle system that could coexist with or replace Sokoban:
- The puzzle part of the level would be represented by an 11x11 grid (9 3x3
  areas with 2 rows/columns of some other terrain to separate them).
- The solution must be given by engraving numbers on squares, with certain
  numbers burnt into the floor. This would require a level flag that provides 2
  special cases to engravings: 1) that non-Elbereth engravings do not degrade
  normally, so you can write numbers in the dust without smudging them; and 2)
  it is impossible to erase a burnt engraving.
- The solution must be given by dropping rocks of the appropriate quantity onto
  the squares of the grid to represent each number.
- Both of the above solutions have the issue that the grid is practically
  unreadable and it basically forces the player to copy the puzzle out of the
  game, solve it, then copy the solution back in. One solution is to have spaces
  containing nothing except the requisite solution display as one of a set of
  9 new glyphs that display as the number 1-9.
- Another solution is to avoid numbers and use object classes (weapon, armor,
  scroll, ring, wand, potion, gem, spellbook, and amulet), since there is no
  particular reason Sudoku has to use the numbers 1-9.
  - This means the puzzle would be solved by having 1 of each object class in
    each row, column, and sub-grid.
  - The "fixed" objects provided as a starting point could either be immovable,
    or movable but required to put back in place for the puzzle to be solved
    (i.e. the puzzle is checking not for *any* valid Sudoku solution, but a
    valid Sudoku solution in which the starting objects haven't moved).
  - The main issue with this suggestion is avoiding providing the player with a
    bunch of free resources and not requiring them to amass 7-9 of each object
    class before starting. One way to work around it is to add a new object to
    each object class that does nothing and never generates outside of the
    Sudoku level, where exactly 9 of each will appear in every puzzle between
    the initial ones and the "stock piles".
