---
layout: singleidea
authors: [quinnlewandowski, Noisytoot, aosdict, Chris_ANG]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [new monster, golem monster class, references, new object, helms, tools, carrot, ice]
---
New monster, enchanted snowman, based on Frosty the Snowman.

It is never randomly generated, but is instead supposed to be assembled by the
player as an ally. Assembling it requires the following:
- A top hat, which is implemented as a helm which conveys no AC like the fedora.
  If being true to the source material, this would be a magical piece of armor,
  but it's unclear what magical effect it would have.
- A corncob pipe and button nose, which are new tool-class objects that are
  unusually heavy for their size (with a message like "This feels unnaturally
  heavy for such a small object" when you lift them). Arguably, the button nose
  should be gem-class instead of a tool. The heaviness is intended to discourage
  carrying around lots of these.
- Alternatively, instead of the button nose, an ordinary carrot.
- Presumably, some source of snow or ice, likely implemented by simply requiring
  ice terrain (which means a source of cold magic is required for most heroes).

The exact mechanism or commands required to assemble it are not specified.

Once assembled, it has the following properties:
- Has extremely high attack and defense, and is moderately fast.
- Will melt in 100 turns, or 250 turns if standing on ice.
- It will usually be tame, influenced by your Luck, with a hard upper bound of
  95%. It will otherwise be hostile.
- If it loses the top hat for any reason, it instantly dies.
- It should drop some of the material components used in its creation when it
  dies, although probably not all of them (otherwise you could make new ones
  using all the same items).
