---
layout: singleidea
authors: [K2, aosdict, Arch, krm26]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [bones files, completely new system, new shop type, chat]
---
Whenever a player dies, whether or not they leave bones, one random object should
be selected from their inventory and have its object details written into a
persistent file. When this file has some minimum amount of entries in it,
subsequent games may generate a new shop type named "trading post" or "rag and
bone shop", which pulls its inventory from the objects in this file. The items
could be labeled with the name of the player they came from, e.g. "potion of
healing named left behind by Bob".

There should be some "too strong" objects which aren't eligible for this,
including wands of wishing and quest artifacts (or all artifacts).

The items should be sold at a markup, which could be 2-3 times their ordinary
cost or more like 10 times. Highly enchanted items (which are unlikely to be
found in a regular store) could be sold with an additional markup.

Possibly, in order to minimize the player's ability to steal the most valuable
items, the shop floor should be small (around 3x3) and the shopkeeper should
personally hold the highest-priced items, requiring you #chat to them to get the
offers. To signal this, when you enter the shop, they say an additional message:
"Ask me about special deals!"

It's also possible to just have the occasional general store use this mechanic,
or to use the "itinerant merchant" idea (#1635) as a dealer of the items.
