---
layout: singleidea
authors: [K2, aosdict, jonadab, hothraxxa]
category: [vanilla]
tags: [potion of booze, damage adjustments, temporary hit points, to-hit adjustments, dexterity, speed adjustments, cold resistance, charisma, foocubi, player fear system, confusion, implemented in evilhack]
---
Additional temporary effects accompany drinking a potion of booze. The effects wear off when the confusion does (so if you extend it by, say, drinking a potion of confusion, the effects are prolonged). There is consensus that there should be both positive and negative effects; all of the following have been proposed:
* A damage bonus, or even double damage
* Temporary HP
* An accuracy penalty (or a Dexterity penalty)
* Slight reduction of speed
* Temporary cold resistance (debatable; if possible it should probably make you not feel cold attacks but still take regular damage from them)
* Attacking an enemy makes you automatically keep fighting it until one of you is dead
* Monsters are treated as having higher charisma (currently no monsters are treated as having charisma at all, but this could also hurt or nullify your ability to refuse a foocubus removing your clothes)
* You may pass out when the confusion ends, and end up with a hangover when you wake up. (Not described what the effects of a hangover would be). You may also find yourself suddenly on a different level when you wake up.
* You are protected from gaze attacks due to not being able to focus enough to meet someone's gaze.
* If you're a dwarf, the effects get magnified
* If there is any such thing as a player-is-scared effect, it is canceled when you drink the booze and blocked while you're under the influence. This goes for however long the confusion persists, so you can extend it by drinking potions of confusion if you want.
* Any AC from your armor is nullified (this would also contribute to monk "drunken boxing" proposals, since monks don't usually have as much armor AC)
